# Executive Summary
In May, Cisco Firewalls and other systems were compromised due to zero-day flaws documented in CVE-2025-20362 and CVE-2025-20333. The CVE-2025-20362 flaw is related to the VPN web server for all Cisco Firewall Adaptive Security Appliance users allowing attackers to have unauthorized access to restricted urls through improper HTTP(S) input requests. The CVE-2025-20333 vulnerability is a critical flaw that can allow attackers, who used the VPN exploit, to follow up by conducting remote attacks with “arbitrary code” on the system affected. This can lead to malicious payloads being distributed on Cisco Firewall systems affecting large companies and many government agencies who use Cisco systems almost exclusively. The VPN flaw was mostly patched but still has potential harms and has not been fully vetted. As for the Second flaw, there is currently no known fix but is actively being pursued. An additional CVE-2025-20363 was related to heap overflow vulnerabilities but was patched out.


# Incident Report

These vulnerabilities were observed in May 2025, where threat actors took advantage of multiple zero-day exploits and performed with a “complexity and sophistication” that was deemed to have a great understanding of the response that Cisco’s security and engineering teams would undertake. These attacks are similar to those conducted in the ArcaneDoor attacks in early 2024 which may raise concern of what other zero-day vulnerabilities these threat actors have. These threat actors are of course breaking several laws clearly set out in the CFAA with their unauthorized access and attempts to cause damage. As practitioners of cybersecurity and a trusted source for most agencies, it is our duty to all stakeholders to deal with this problem in the fastest and most ethical way possible, as to not erode the trust in our systems and knowledge and uphold the Cisco ethical framework of integrity, trust, security, and privacy. In order to test this further and gain more conclusive information on our systems, we have received authorization for our testing from the Information Security Manager so our security team may narrow the specific source of the vulnerability so it may be resolved by engineering. Testers will conduct a VPN based attack, similar to the attack that had previously occurred, in an attempt to gain improper validation of user-supplied input through HTTP(S) requests to gain authorization to restricted URL endpoints. This will be further used to try to gain access to host equipment/routers and endpoint devices, especially devices that use “AnyConnect IKEv2 Remote Access”/ "Mobile User Security(MUS)” and SSL VPN. In addition to these two edge case tests, we will verify that the heap-based buffer overflow attack in Cisco based IOS software was fixed or if it is still vulnerable to arbitrary code execution. In the NIST lifecycle, these tests will help us finish the response and hopefully move us closer to recovery and protection. 

# New Policy

The AUP should remain the same for users of the products, with the addition of a recommendation to not use the VPN and other related services until a patch has been released. This should be amended at the top of the AUP and all users should be notified and required to re-sign this document for their awareness of the ongoing security risks. For the course of the testing, the minimum required information will be collected in order to narrow down and fix the vulnerability. Data will have PII redacted in saved versions and will be properly disposed of at the end of this testing and analysis phase. Evidence will be handled by professionals on a need-to-know basis and will be encrypted with SHA512 for enhanced information security. 

Disclosure is important to the involved customers and agencies. With that we need to get ahead of the issue and have a constructed solution and temporary measures to put in place to minimize potential damages. Announcements should be made to consumers of the affected products by the end of the business day, with a report released in the coming week. Roll backs of applicable software is a potential solution but as it has been out for several weeks we will press on with our incident response and recovery and customers may opt into a roll back of software as needed. For our penetration testing we will set up the correct configuration of affected routers/hardware along with the affected VPN and test until we figure out the method at which the attackers used, the fault in the coding, and other vulnerabilities that may have been missed. 

Explicit consent was already received from the Information Security Manager, which said member retains the right to refuse at any point during the testing. Testing will be terminated at the end of the testing period (20251010T1000Z to 20251015T2000Z) or if the test goes out of scope 10x times or if the manager decides the test must be concluded. The Information Security Manager will be the POC for high and critical findings with a report time of 15 minutes, but for all other findings please file and report during normal business hours through the security team lead and ISM if they are present during normal business hours. When scope creep occurs, we will pause the testing, fix the issues that had occurred and reconvene. Testing will include use of AI to help with monitoring, data collection, and code vulnerability review. The Human-in-the-loop will be the security team lead or another designated team member due to likely shifts being needed to finish testing and to create reports. A ticket system will be used to appeal to potential flags, but as said this system will be a created system to test the defects of the software and will not include random users. Transparency is required with the use of AI, so that we may know what the AI is collecting and why, and transparency is required for any user data that may be collected in the pursuit of testing. 

# Controls and Trade-offs

The root cause of the incident primarily comes from the VPN stack which means that the mitigation for consumers would be to not use the product or roll back to a prior version that does not include the zero-day exploit that came with the newer version. These are not the most ideal solution as a fix is being worked and implemented but fixing the issues with the VPN stack, the buffer overflow attacks, and remote and unauthorized access to restricted urls is the priority to resolving these issues and vulnerabilities to consumers and stakeholders. There are many trade offs we are viewing here as many of our consumers and stakeholders actively use these VPNs to bring their organizations together from remote locations, making interoffice communication difficult without these. Additionally there is a privacy and business impact of how much online work/sales/communications will be put on hold while the software is being fixed or put offline. This can have vast impacts on many businesses and government agencies that use Cisco Firewall, VPNs, and other products regularly. This affects stakeholders as well as many of them use Cisco products and have considerable investments in Cisco stock, which may take a hit if public trust is diminished by these vulnerabilities. 

The changes are large, as the effect of losing potential access to your firewall and other internet services for most large companies can cost millions each day, thus the immediate rollback of software for companies who opt in is recommended or not using software if able until patch is released. Steps will have to be taken in the future after the patches are released to reinforce public and private confidence again and show that these mistakes have been fixed. The timeline should be rapid, ideally 24hrs to rollback and starting of testing. Engineering will have to work on the patch in conjunction with our security team with live updates as this is a critical CVE that can bring online business to a halt for larger companies which is not a viable option. The testing will be 5 days but will include ongoing testing on our own offline hardware and VMs. Changes for this will be accelerated as this is an issue that requires whole-enterprise coordination, requiring rapid response and correction to keep customer information safe. 

# Conclusion 

These issues resulted from a vulnerability within the VPN code stack allowing for a zero-day attack to take place and allowing for other vulnerabilities to be cultivated. This is notoriously difficult to prevent as zero-day vulnerabilities are oftentimes issues that the programmers and testers don’t even know about and can be unknown for months or years until threat actors decide to utilize these vulnerabilities. For this reason my recommendation is retraining for programmers involved with an increased testing phase before rollout. I recommend a dedicated security team to be assigned to the testing phase to assist with finding exploits in coded projects moving forward, along with the gradual adaptation and use of AI assistance in code bug finding. Increasing this testing QA phase by one or two weeks as needed should decrease the amount of bugs or at least reduce the critical CVEs on zero-day release. For the next year, review cadence of these should be increased from quarterly to monthly, which will remain until code vulnerabilities are decreased by 70% on release. This approach may be modified sooner by the CISO if performance is increased and they deem the use of resources unneeded. As of now the company needs to return to its secure form which dictates a rapid and robust response on all levels. 

# Sources

https://sec.cloudapps.cisco.com/security/center/resources/asa_ftd_continued_attacks

https://www.pcmag.com/news/widespread-hack-hits-cisco-firewalls-via-zero-day-flaws

https://sec.cloudapps.cisco.com/security/center/content/CiscoSecurityAdvisory/cisco-sa-asaftd-webvpn-YROOTUW

https://sec.cloudapps.cisco.com/security/center/content/CiscoSecurityAdvisory/cisco-sa-asaftd-webvpn-z5xP8EUB

